添加多人对战文档 (#641)
taptap/tds-docs: i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/sdk/multiplayer/start/cs.mdx

---
title: Getting Started with Multiplayer - C#
sidebar_label: C#
sidebar_position: 2
---

import { Conditional } from "/src/docComponents/conditional";
import sdkVersions from "/src/docComponents/sdkVersions";
import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock";

> Welcome to online multiplayer matchmaking. This tutorial will explain the core usage of the SDK by simulating a scenario that compares the size of players' scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to Multiplayer. This tutorial will explain the core usage of the SDK by simulating a scenario that compares players' scores.
```

## Installation

> The Play client SDK is open source, the source code can be found at [csharp-sdk](https://github.com/leancloud/csharp-sdk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Play client SDK is open source. The source code can be found at [csharp-sdk](https://github.com/leancloud/csharp-sdk).
```

You can also download [Release version](https://github.com/leancloud/csharp-sdk/releases).

### Unity Projects

> The SDK can be imported via Unity Package Manager or manually, either one of them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK can be imported via Unity Package Manager or manually:
```

* **UPM**: Please add dependencies in Packages/manifest.json of your project:

    <CodeBlock className="json">
    {`"dependencies": {
        "com.leancloud.play": "https://github.com/leancloud/csharp-sdk-upm.git#play-${sdkVersions.leancloud.csharp}",
    }`}
    </CodeBlock>

> * **Direct Import**: Unzip the downloaded LeanCloud-SDK-Play-Unity.zip and drag and drop the `Plugins` directory into the Unity project. If there is already a `Plugins` directory in the project, merge it into the `Plugins` directory in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Direct Import**: Unzip the downloaded LeanCloud-SDK-Play-Unity.zip and drag and drop the `Plugins` directory into the Unity project. If there is already a `Plugins` directory in the project, merge the SDK into the `Plugins` directory in the project.
```

```cs
// Setting the SDK Log Delegation
LeanCloud.Common.Logger.LogDelegate = (level, log) =>
{
    if (level == LogLevel.Debug) {
        Debug.LogFormat("[DEBUG] {0}", log);
    } else if (level == LogLevel.Warn) {
        Debug.LogWarningFormat("[WARN] {0}", log);
    } else if (level == LogLevel.Error) {
        Debug.LogErrorFormat("[ERROR] {0}", log);
    }
};
```

## Initialisation

Import the required namespaces

```cs
using LeanCloud.Play;
```

<Conditional brand="leancloud">

```cs
var client = new Client("your-app-id", "your-app-key", "tarara", playServer: "https://xxx.example.com");
// Please replace xxx.example.com with the domain name of the custom API your app is bound to.
```

</Conditional>

<Conditional brand="tds">

```cs
var client = new Client(
    "your-client-id",      // Client ID of the game
    "your-client-token",   // Client Token for the game
    "tarara",              // Set the user id
    playServer: "https://your_server_url" // The game's API domain name
);
```

- The `Client ID` and `Client Token` of the game can be viewed at **Developer Centre > Your Games > Game Services > Application Configuration**.

> - The API domain name is viewable at **Application Configuration > Domain Configuration > API**, refer to the documentation for [domain name](/sdk/domain/guide/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The API domain name is viewable at **Application Configuration > Domain Configuration > API**. Refer to the documentation for [domain name](/sdk/domain/guide/) for more information.
```

</Conditional>

> ## Connecting to a multiplayer matchmaking server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connecting to a Multiplayer server
```

```cs
try {
    await client.Connect();
} catch (PlayException e) {
    // connection failure
    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

## Creating or Joining a Room

By default the Play SDK does not require a "lobby" to create/join a room.

```cs
try {
    await client.JoinOrCreateRoom(roomName);
} catch (PlayException e) {
    // Failed to create or join a room
    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

`JoinOrCreateRoom` ensures that two client players can enter the same room by having the same roomName. Please refer to the [Developer Guide](/sdk/multiplayer/guide/cs/#joinorcreateroom) for more information on the usage of `JoinOrCreateRoom`.

## Synchronising Player Properties via CustomPlayerProperties

> When a new player joins the room, the Master assigns a score to each player, which is synchronised to the player via "Player Custom Properties".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new player joins the room, the Master assigns a score to each player, which is synchronised to the players via "Player Custom Properties".
```

(No more complex algorithms are done here, just 10 points are assigned to the Master and 5 points to the other players).

```cs

> // Register new players to join the room event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Register the event for new players joining the room
```

client.OnPlayerRoomJoined += (newPlayer) => {
    Debug.LogFormat("new player: {0}", newPlayer.UserId);
    if (client.Player.IsMaster) {
        // Get a list of players in the room
        var playerList = client.Room.PlayerList;
        for (int i = 0; i < playerList.Count; i++) {
            var player = playerList[i];
            var props = new PlayObject();

>             // Set 10 points if the judgement is a homeowner, otherwise set 5 points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // Set 10 points for the master and 5 points for other players
```

            if (player.IsMaster) {
                props.Add("point", 10);
            } else {
                props.Add("point", 5);
            }
            player.SetCustomProperties(props);
        }
        var data = new PlayObject {
            { "winnerId", client.Room.Master.ActorId }
        };
        var opts = new SendEventOptions {
            ReceiverGroup = ReceiverGroup.All
        };
        client.SendEvent(GAME_OVER_EVENT, data, opts);
    }
};
```

> Players get scores and display their scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display the score after the player gets their score.
```

```cs
// Register for "Player Attribute Change" event
client.OnPlayerCustomPropertiesChanged += (player, changedProps) => {
    // Determine if the player is themselves and do the UI display
    if (player.IsLocal) {
        // Get the player's score
        long point = player.CustomProperties.GetInt("point");
        Debug.LogFormat("{0} : {1}", player.UserId, point);
        scoreText.text = string.Format("Score: {0}", point);
    }
};
```

## Communication via Custom Events

When the score is distributed, the ID of the winner (Master) is sent as an argument to all players via a custom event.

```cs
if (client.Player.IsMaster) {
    // ...
    var data = new PlayObject {
        { "winnerId", client.Room.Master.ActorId }
    };
    var opts = new SendEventOptions {
        ReceiverGroup = ReceiverGroup.All
    };
    client.SendEvent(GAME_OVER_EVENT, data, opts);
}
```

Make different UI displays depending on whether you judge the winner to be yourself or not.

```cs
// Registering custom events
client.OnCustomEvent += (eventId, eventData, senderId) => {
    if (eventId == GAME_OVER_EVENT) {

>         // Get the winner, Id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Get the winner's Id
```
